**SPEAKER:** László Fehér

**ABSTRACT**
Suppose that f is a degree d homogeneous polynomial in 3 variables. Then f defines a projective plane curve Z_f ⊂ P^2. Assuming that Z_f is non-singular, a famous formula of Plücker tells us that Z_f has 3d(d − 2) flexes. This can be reproved using equivariant cohomology classes of coincident root loci (which were calculated 20 years ago by Fehér–Némethi–Rimányi and Kőműves and also by Kazarian): if g is a degree d homogeneous polynomial in 3 variables, then g is a product of d linear factors, and Pol^d(C^2) is the disjoint union of the coincident root strata Y_λ for partitions of d, according to the multiplicities. For example the equivariant cohomology class of Y_{3,1,...,1} is

d(d − 2)( (d − 1)c_1^2  − (d − 4)c_2).

A simple geometric argument gives that the number of flexes can be obtained by substituting c_1^2 = c_2 = 1, obtaining the Plücker formula above. 

We can study similar problems in higher dimensions connected to tangent lines to degree d hypersurfaces, and there is a family of generalized Plücker formulas which contain the same information as the equivariant cohomology classes of coincident root loci.

The last Plücker formula calculates the Euler characteristics of the dual curve (which is the set of tangent lines) of Z_f. In modern terms this can be calculated from the equivariant Chern–Schwartz–MacPherson class c^{SM}( Y_{2,1,...,1}). The CSM class is a refinement of the cohomology class. The CSM classes of coincident root loci were calculated recently by Balázs Kőműves and the authors. It turns out that there is a wider class of Plücker formulas concerning the Euler characteristics of certain tangent line varieties which contain the same information as the CSM classes of coincident root loci.

The next natural step is to obtain information on the motivic χ_y-genus of these tangent line varieties. This can be done by calculating the motivic Chern classes of coincident root loci. We start to discover that there is an elaborate network of dependencies among these numbers governed by the geometry.

In this talk I present an algorithm calculating the motivic Chern classes of coincident root loci. We believe that these classes depend polynomially on d, just as the classical Plücker formulas. This conjecture is supported by computer evidence and some simple examples.

---

plucker formulas






