>[!info] 
>If $X$ is separable and metrizable then $X$ is homeomorphic to a subspace of $[0,1]^\mathbb{N}$ 

We will denote the space of all real-valued functions on $X$ with supreme norm by $C_b(X)$ 

>[!info] Stone-Weierstrass
>$K$ - compact space, $W\subseteq C(K)$ -> linear subspace which is a ring
>$W$ contains constant functions and distinguishes points of $K$ $\implies$ $W$ is dense in $C(K)$ and every continuous function on $K$ can be uniformly approximated by elements of $W$.

>[!info] theorem
>$C_b(X)$ is separable $\iff$ $X$ is compact

**Tietze extension theorem**
if $X$ is a normal space and $f:A\to \mathbb{R}$ is a continuous map from closed $A\subseteq X$ carrying the standard topology, then there exists a continuous extension of $f$ to $X$, $F:X\to\mathbb{R}$, F|A=f$.

>[!tip] Polish space
>A topological space is **Polish** if it is
>- separable
>- metrizable by a complete metric

Closed subspaces of Polish spaces are also Polish.

A set is $G_\delta$ if it is a countable intersection of open sets.
A set if $F_\sigma$ if it is a countable sum of closed sets.

>[!info] Alexandrov's theorem
>Let $X$ be a Polish space. $Y\subseteq X$ is Polish $\iff$ $Y$ is a $G_\delta$ subset of $X$.

## Borel sets

Now all $X$ mean separable metrizable spaces.
$\tau_X$ - topology on $X$ (all open sets)
$Bor(X):=\sigma(\tau_X)$

>[!info] lemma
>Every closed $F\subseteq X$ is $G_\delta$

>[!info]
>$$Bor(\prod X_n)=\bigotimes Bor(X_n)$$

For a space $X$ we write $P(X)=$ family of all probability measures defined on $Bor(X)$, simply: *Borel measures on $X$*. 

>[!tip] regular measure
>For any $X$, every $\mu\in P(X)$ is **regular**
>$$(\forall\;B\in Bor(X))(\forall\;\varepsilon>0)(\exists V\text{ otwarty})(\exists\;F\text{ zamknięty})\;F\subseteq B\subseteq V\;\land\; \mu(V-F)<\varepsilon$$

We can take replace $F$ with $F_\sigma$ set and $V$ with $G_\delta$ set such that $\mu(V-F)=0$. 

>[!tip] tight measure
>A measure $\mu\in P(X)$ is **tight** if for every $\varepsilon>0$ there is a compact set $K\subseteq X$ such that $\mu(K)\geq 1-\varepsilon$

Every measure on a Polish space is tight.

>[!info] Lusin's theorem
>If $f:X\to\mathbb{R}$ is Borel and $\mu\in P(X)$, then for every $\varepsilon>0$ there exists a closed set $F\subseteq X$ such that $\mu(X-F)<\varepsilon$ and $g|F:F\to \mathbb{R}$ is continuous.
>
>If $X$ is Polish, we can find a set $F$ that is compact.


An abstract space $(X, B, \mu)$ is called **separable** if $L_1(\mu)$ is separable, i.e. it contains a *countable, dense subset*.

>[!info] theorem
>If $X$ is separable metrizable, then every $\mu\in P(X)$ is separable.
